# Blood-Sugar-Level-Control
Design a discrete Deadbeat controller for a linearized blood sugar level system - UT EE - Spring 2022
# Description:
In this project, we intend to control the blood sugar level of a type 1 diabetes patient. Diabetes occurs when the pancreas cannot produce enough insulin to regulate blood sugar levels. In type 1 diabetes, the pancreas does not make any insulin, and the patient ultimately depends on external insulin injections to control his blood sugar. High blood sugar (hyperglycemia) occurs when blood glucose is higher than the average amount (L/8mmol) for a long time. A decrease in blood sugar (hypoglycemia) also occurs when the blood sugar level reaches below three mmol/L. Both of these situations are harmful to the patient's health. Hyperglycemia can lead to vision loss, kidney failure, and other long-term risks. Hypoglycemia has more chances in the short term and can lead to loss of consciousness and coma in a few hours. The average sugar interval between kidney failure and long-term risks becomes longer. Hypoglycemia has more chances in the short term and can lead to loss of consciousness and coma in a few hours.
The usual sugar range is between 5-8.3 L/6mmol, which is the goal of blood sugar control. A healthy body has a natural feedback system that orders the pancreas to produce insulin based on the amount of glucose in the blood. In this project, we try to simulate this function for the patient with a suitable external controller. Many models have been proposed to describe the glucose and insulin system in the human body. Here, we use Bergman's model, representing the system's dynamics with three equations. The state equations of the system are as follows:
